Welcome back.
Now that we have implemented our binary search tree I want to talk a little bit about balancing our
tree usually in production.
You want to have a balanced search tree.
There are two types of trees that are very popular when it comes to this.
Although we built our own binary search tree you'd most likely in production use something like a real
tree or a red black tree that automatically rebalances itself so that we don't have those edge cases
where our balanced tree turns into a linear unbalanced tree.
Now these topics we don't need to code ourselves because they are a little bit complex and most of the
time you're using some sort of a library that implements it.
But I do want you to understand how it works.
So I'll leave resources for you for both red black tree as well as Avi trees where if you click here
you'll see that visual go also has to demonstrate for you how it works.
If I want to insert let's say seventy seven into my avi Peltry nothing's different.
We're adding 77 to the tree.
But if I now add let's say 80 which will make our tree a little bit unbalanced if I hit go
you'll see that I'm traversing down traversing down I add 80 and then all of a sudden oh it sound balanced
it's going to go back and do a little bit of a switch or rotation to balance out the tree to make sure
that the levels that we have in a tree are always bounce and then we have REPP black trees as well which
does things a little bit differently.
If let's say we inserted 9 here then let's say we insert 10
and then finally let's insert 11.
You'll notice that.
Oh it's not balanced.
We need to balance it out and once again automatically make sure that our tree does get balanced with
something called red black tree.
As you can see the nose are red and black here and that's something that we use to keep track of when
we need to we.
I'll leave resources for you if you want to learn more about them.
Just keep in mind that these two are usually the most popular for balancing binary search trees and
in interviews you won't have to implement them.
You just need to be able to talk about them and why they're useful.
Something that we should know by now.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.